README.md, before:

# El-Portal
## React components based on Fluent UI React V9

The components in this repository are UI components that are based on Microsoft Fluent UI React V9 components.

Currrent list of Components
* TreeView: This components organizes data into a tree. The tree has expanders to expand or collapse branches. It also has context menu capability so each node in the tree can display an optional context menu.

This project was started using Vite which is a packge that creates projects based on templates. It does way more than that but I am just a humble newbie to Vite so I don't know all the details. If you want to learn all about Vite you can review the [Vite website](https://vitejs.dev/).
I used this command to bootstrap this project: ```npm create vite@latest el-portal -- --template react-ts```

### FAQ
**Why base on Fluent UI?** Because Fluent UI comes with resources I need. Especially a vast library of icons and fonts that look nice on the platform where the code runs. Fluent UI React also keeps style in code with the component by using Griffel. I enjoy using this pattern and it is easy to use from Fluent UI React. Lastly, I'm planning on using these components from Fluent UI based projects so using Fluent UI React in this project makes it easier. Learn more about Fluent UI React from the [Fluent UI React V9 website](https://react.fluentui.dev/?path=/docs/concepts-introduction--page)

**Why not use create-react-app?** This tool is no longer being maintained. I started getting dependency errors from the tool generated code on deployment so I abandoned it.

**Why TypeScript?** Because it makes you write better code and it is fun

**Why you have so many comments in your code?** Because I don't get to work on this project that often. I work on many other things. The heavy commenting helps me swap what I was doing and why I made decisions I made back into my brain faster. They don't hurt the production build at all.


## How to use
1. Install NodeJS and NPM. I am currently using node v18.18.2 and npm 9.8.1
1. Clone the repo
1. Change directory into the directory that contains the repo you just cloned
1. ```npm install```
1. ```npm run dev```

## Contact ##
Have questions? Here is my contact information:
* Personal email [mikedice417@hotmail.com](mailto:mikedice417@hotmail.com) 
* Professional email [mikedice@microsoft.com](mailto:mikedice@microsoft.com)
* [GitHub](https://github.com/mikedice)
* [Linked In](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mikedice)

Commit message:

Configure the build to produce an npm library
Add instructions to the Readme for how to use the lib

README.md, after:

# El-Portal
## React components based on Fluent UI React V9

The components in this repository are UI components that are based on Microsoft Fluent UI React V9 components.

Currrent list of Components
* TreeView: This components organizes data into a tree. The tree has expanders to expand or collapse branches. It also has context menu capability so each node in the tree can display an optional context menu.

This project was started using Vite which is a packge that creates projects based on templates. It does way more than that but I am just a humble newbie to Vite so I don't know all the details. If you want to learn all about Vite you can review the [Vite website](https://vitejs.dev/).
I used this command to bootstrap this project: ```npm create vite@latest el-portal -- --template react-ts```

### FAQ
**Why base on Fluent UI?** Because Fluent UI comes with resources I need. Especially a vast library of icons and fonts that look nice on the platform where the code runs. Fluent UI React also keeps style in code with the component by using Griffel. I enjoy using this pattern and it is easy to use from Fluent UI React. Lastly, I'm planning on using these components from Fluent UI based projects so using Fluent UI React in this project makes it easier. Learn more about Fluent UI React from the [Fluent UI React V9 website](https://react.fluentui.dev/?path=/docs/concepts-introduction--page)

**Why not use create-react-app?** This tool is no longer being maintained. I started getting dependency errors from the tool generated code on deployment so I abandoned it.

**Why TypeScript?** Because it makes you write better code and it is fun

**Why you have so many comments in your code?** Because I don't get to work on this project that often. I work on many other things. The heavy commenting helps me swap what I was doing and why I made decisions I made back into my brain faster. They don't hurt the production build at all.


## How to use
1. Install NodeJS and NPM. I am currently using node v18.18.2 and npm 9.8.1
1. Clone the repo
1. Change directory into the directory that contains the repo you just cloned
1. ```npm install```
1. ```npm run dev```

## Build and use el-portal as a library
1. Install NodeJS and NPM. I am currently using node v18.18.2 and npm 9.8.1
1. Clone the repo
1. Change directory into the directory that contains the repo you just cloned
1. Run the command `npm run build`. This command will produce a ```.\dist directory```
1. Currently you have to 'statically link' this library as it is not published to NPM yet
1. Still in the root directory run the command ```npm link```. This will create a file system link to this directory in the global npm packages directory
1. Go to the root of the target project where you wish to consume the el-portal package. Run the command ```npm link el-portal```
1. In your TS code you should now be able to import TreeView and TreeNode


## Contact ##
Have questions? Here is my contact information:
* Personal email [mikedice417@hotmail.com](mailto:mikedice417@hotmail.com) 
* Professional email [mikedice@microsoft.com](mailto:mikedice@microsoft.com)
* [GitHub](https://github.com/mikedice)
* [Linked In](https://www.linkedin.com/in/mikedice)
